## Atlas Search
- Follows relevance based search, using lucene open source algorithm

## Starts with search indexes
- Defines how a search should be performed
- Not the same as DB indexes
- Option of dynamic/non-dynamic and adding field mappings

### Dynamic Mapping
- All fields referenced with same weight, aside from booleans, objectIds, and timestamps.
- Default and fasted way to get running.
- Do not need any field mappings as we are looking at all of the fields.
- Searches on all fields, including nested fields.

### Static field mappings
- Fields that are queried are always the same.
- 'Refine your index'
    - Work out fields that are most useful
    - To save time and processing power - turn off dynamic mapping and select these fields in the field mapping.
    - Now add field with the field type. e.g. name: string.
    - If you don't map a field, a search for those fields, even if exactly matching a certain attribute, will give 0 results.


### $search and compound operator
- Create a aggregation pipeline and add a $search stage, with $compound to specify how results should be ranked.

#### $compound
- Must, Must Not, Should, Filter
- Filter elimates results from returned cursor

```javascript

$search: {
    "compound": {
        "must": [{
            // Basically forcing the search engine to have the query grasslands on the habitat field
            "text": {
                "query": "grasslands",
                "path": "habitat"
            }
        }],
        "should": [{
            // if wingspan is greater than 75 add 5 to the lucene search algorithm result
            "range": {
                "gte": 75,
                "path": "wingspan_cm",
                "score": { "constant": { "value": 5 }}
            }
        }]
    }
},
// shows the output search scores from the previous search
$project: {
    score: { $meta: "searchScore" }
}

```

"must" will exclude records that do not meet the criteria. 
"mustNot" will exclude results that do meet the criteria. 
"should" will allow you to give weight to results that do meet the criteria so that they appear first. 
"filter" will remove results that do not meet the criteria.

## Facets and $searchMeta
- Buckets that search results are sorted into
- We can bucket by types such as numbers, dates, strings
- When building the atlas search need to add a field mapping that will specify a DateFacet, StringFacet, etc.

- To get the results from the facets we need to use the $searchMeta. They are not returned from the actual search.
- $searchMeta returns the count from the number of results in the facets and the facet data.


```javascript

$searchMeta: {
    "facet": {
        "operator": {
            "text": {
                "query": "grasslands",
                "path": "habitat"
            }
        },
        "facets": {
            "sightingWeekFacet": {
                "type": "date",
                "path": "date",
                "boundaries": [x, y, z],
                "default": "other"
            }
        }
    }
}

```